>> James Halliday: The next thing
that I wanted to talk about is
sort of a little bit more
information about how paths work.
Because it's kind of important
to know how paths work and
what the expectations are if
the path's in a directory system.
So, we've already used things like dot and
dot dot a little bit, and tilde.
So, paths that use '.' and
'..' at the beginning
are called relative paths.
This also includes
something like if you do,
if I do like head moby-dick.txt,
this is an example of a relative path,
because it's relative to
the current directory.
It's also the same as doing ./ the file,
it's also the same
as a bunch of, as many dot slashes as you
want, cuz it means the current directory.
These are all examples of relative paths.
Where if I want to do ls ../ also
an example of a relative path, because
what directory you're in, what your
current working directory is, Matters.
There's also absolute paths which
typically begin with a slash or I guess
if you begin a path with tilde that's
also an example of an absolute path.
And with these paths it doesn't matter
where you are in the directory system
with the CD commands, they will work.
The same from anywhere.
And if you want to get the absolute
path for the current directory,
we've already seen the pwd commands.
So if I do ls, that absolutely path,
that's the same as doing ls.
Or just just ls, okay?